https://twitter.com/biz84/status/1518503651211362305

When using Riverpod, what is the difference between ref.watch(), ref.read() and ref.listen()?

It really boils down to this. 👇

For more details, here's a thread. 🧵

---

For example, suppose you have a logout button which behaves like this:

- When pressed, call a method to sign out
- While sign out is in progress, disable the button
- If an error occurs, show a SnackBar

As a starting point, we can create our button as a ConsumerWidget:

---

Next up, we can create a StateNotifier subclass for our button, along with the corresponding provider.

Note the use of AsyncValue.guard(). This can be used as a lightweight alternative to try/catch as explained here:

https://twitter.com/biz84/status/1516299097594028035

---

Next, let's use the notifier in our widget:

- in the build() method, we can call ref.watch() to watch the provider's state and disable our button if it's "loading"
- inside the callback, we use ref.read() so we can call methods in our notifier

---

What about errors?

We can use ref.listen() to trigger a callback every time the state changes.

Inside it, we can check the previous and current state show a SnackBar on error.

Note: As of Riverpod 2.0, you'll also want to check state.isRefreshing:

https://pub.dev/packages/riverpod/versions/2.0.0-dev.5/changelog#200-dev0

---

Lastly, note how we now have a good separation of concerns:

- our StateNotifier manages the widget state and calls the signOut method in the auth repository 
- our widget watches state changes and shows the UI

This makes our code more testable and maintainable in the long run.

---

Hope you found this useful.

For more Flutter tips, just follow me: @biz84.

Btw, my Flutter course (out tomorrow!) already includes 2.5 hours of content about Riverpod, with more planned:

https://codewithandrea.com/courses/complete-flutter-bundle/

Happy coding!