
How do you create and initialize an object *asynchronously*, but access it *synchronously* in the rest of the app?

If you use Riverpod, this can be accomplished with a provider override as shown here. 👇

Here's a thread with a complete example. 🧵

---


In this example, we have a class that takes a Database argument.

But the database can only be created after *awaiting* for some initialization code.

So we can put all the async init code inside a static method that returns a Future. 👇

---


Then, we can create a provider for our class.

It may be tempting to use a FutureProvider and just return `SembastCartRepository.withDefaultDB()`.

But that would force us to deal with AsyncValue every time we read the provider.

So we just throw an UnimplementedError instead.


---

As a result, we can initialize the object we need using `await` inside the main method.

And we can *override* the provider with the initialized object when we call runApp().

---

Then, we can read or watch the provider and get the underlying object when needed.

And this will return the provider that we have overridden in the main method.

---

This technique works well when initializing dependencies such as repositories or data sources.

In turn, those repositories can have their own methods to fetch data using a Future.

And when fetching *data*, it makes sense to use FutureProvider (as it can be reloaded/refreshed).

---


Hope you found this useful.

For more Flutter tips like me, just follow me: @biz84

Happy coding!


## Code

```dart
class SembastCartRepository {
  SembastCartRepository(this.db);
  final Database db;

  static Future<SembastCartRepository> withDefaultDB() async {
    final appDocDir = await getApplicationDocumentsDirectory();
    final db = databaseFactoryIo.openDatabase(
      '${appDocDir.path}/default.db'
    );
    return SembastCartRepository(db);
  }
}

final cartRepositoryProvider = Provider<SembastCartRepository>((ref) {
  // can't return a SembastCartRepository
  // because the initializer is async
  // so we throw an error instead
  throw UnimplementedError();
});

// some class that depends on the repository
class CartService {
  CartService(this.cartRepository);
  final SembastCartRepository cartRepository;

  void doSomething() {}
}

final cartServiceProvider = Provider<CartService>((ref) {
  // note: we can read this synchronously
  final cartRepository = ref.watch(cartRepositoryProvider);
  return CartService(cartRepository);
});
```